you could spend hours on end watching
every single one of my YouTube videos
about how to be a better public speaker
but at the end of the day if you don't
actually practice these skills you're
not going to become a better public
speaker so in this video I am going to
give you three daily
exercises three things that you can do
on a day-to-day basis to help improve
your public speaking skills and the
first tip is going to help you think
quicker on your feet which is such a
powerful skill when you're delivering a
presentation or if you're leading a
meeting the ability to think quickly and
to be able to adapt in those situations
or handle audience questions is really
powerful and this Taps into something
within the Toastmasters program which is
called table topics so table topics is a
whole section of Toastmasters meetings
that has to do with random questions
there's a table topics master who asks
various Toast Masters members questions
and then those individuals have to
respond for one to two minutes and they
only have a few seconds to think on
their feet and come up with the response
some of these questions can be anything
from what is your favorite candy bar and
why to what is the one place you really
want to travel to in the future or what
is the best vacation you've been on in
the past these topics
very greatly but it's a great exercise
because it gets us thinking and able to
practice that spontaneous speaking skill
that is a challenge for so many but the
good news is this doesn't have to be
something you only practice once per
week or once every two weeks at a
Toastmasters meeting this can be
something that you incorporate into a
daily exercise how do you do it there's
multiple ways the first if you have a
family member or friend that you see on
a regular basis ask them to come up with
a list of questions which could be about
anything and then tell them that you
want to steal two minutes of their time
each day they'll ask you the question
and you respond to them you practice
answering that question as if you were
presenting maybe to a bigger audience
but you get in the Rhythm and the flow
of responding to random questions that
you don't know what they're going to be
before they're actually asked but maybe
you don't have a family member or friend
who can ask you these questions I'm sure
you could randomly Google away a certain
question a random Google question
generator or even ask chat gbt each day
or some of one of these AI tools ask it
to come up with a question another tool
and I've spoke about this on my channel
before a great public speaking app is
one that's called SPO it's currently
available for Apple devices but I
believe it's coming to Android in the
future they have a random propped
generator within that app that is going
to give you random questions and then
tell you how you responded was your
pacing good did you give a solid answer
all of that information will be included
within the app so that's another app I'm
a big fan of but however you go about
practicing this it's such an important
skill to think on your feet the next
daily exercise for practicing your
public speaking
skills is to use Miriam Webster's word
of the day feature so every single day
Miriam Webster and I will link to this
feature Down Below in the video
description puts out a word of the day
and this is a cool thing to check out
because every day you learn a new word
that you're probably unfamiliar with and
it gives you the definition and how to
use that word in a sentence but this is
a great way to try to incorporate new
vocabulary I want you to check that word
in the morning and throughout your day
try to use that word in a situation when
appropriate at least once and this is
again tapping into something from Toast
Masters that many of you will be
familiar with it's a role called the
Garian and the Garian also comes up with
a word of the day for the meetings and
speakers are challenged to try to
incorporate this word when speaking but
you don't have to only do this during
Toastmasters meetings this is something
that can be a daily exercise for you to
work on those public speaking skills by
pushing yourself and your vocabulary
you're going to come across as a better
public speaker because one of the traps
some speakers get caught in is using the
same descriptive words continuously
throughout their speech or using words
that are sort of loow hanging fruit
words like good or great instead using
words that are phenomenal fantastic
exceptional it's these words that add
more variety to the speeches and do a
better job describing the true emotion
that you felt they're a little bit less
vanilla which can really help enrich our
speeches so using maram Webster's word
of the day function and trying to
incorporate that word throughout our
daily conversations it's a fun little
Challenge and it will help you become a
better speaker my final daily exercise
for becoming a better public speaker is
to always have a speech you're working
on and that might sound a little bit
strange because you might be thinking
wait I don't have any upcoming speech
that I know about but that doesn't mean
you can't be working on a speech all the
time maybe you have a friend that's
getting married and of course if you've
been asked to be in the wedding party
there's probably a good chance you'll be
asked to give a speech so that's
something you could be working toward
but even if you're not even if you're
just attending that wedding maybe that
gives you an excuse to think about if I
were to give a speech for that person
what would that speech look like and
start going through the process at the
very least that will be great practice
for future speeches but I have been to
many weddings where spontaneously
they'll open up the mic and allow anyone
to give a speech and I don't necessarily
recommend this if you're mcing a wedding
I have another video that talks about
how to MC a wedding properly however if
that opportunity exists and you're able
to go up there and people know well wait
a second Wade wasn't scheduled to have a
speech but I can deliver something that
I've thought through and practiced that
is going to be incredibly meaningful but
it doesn't just have to be a wedding or
a formal event maybe you have a work
meeting coming up or a presentation
where maybe somebody else is doing the
presenting but think to yourself well
what if that person got sick on the day
of is there something I could contribute
or if randomly they asked me to say a
few words at this event what is it that
I could talk about challenge yourself to
always have a speech even when you don't
really have a speech that you need to be
doing still be working on something and
maybe there's not a personal or a work
example you can think of create a fun
speech yourself something that maybe
you'll deliver at a Toast Masters
meeting in the future get in the process
of having the speech and then where the
daily exercise comes in is I want you to
practice this with visualization in mind
so when you're practicing your speech
even if you're by yourself I want you to
be looking through as if there is an
audience there and pretending and
visualizing what does that room look
like or that venue or that situation
where you might give the speech imagine
people there as you present as if
they're actually there in real life and
this process is going to help you I
can't tell you how many times I've
practiced a speech even though I wasn't
technically set to be speaking and it's
happened the person has said wait by the
way do you have a few words you want to
add and by being able to step up there
and deliver something seeming Flawless
almost coming across as like I just
stepped into that role it's incredibly
impressive and your audience will
respect you for it I hope these three
daily exercises to improve your public
speaking skills have been helpful let me
know in the comments if they were and if
you have not yet subscribed to my
Channel please do that my goal is to
help make you a more impactful
communicator and a better public speaker